xyz color space (#34228)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/color_space/index.md

While combinations of red, green, and blue work well for representing colors on screen, sRGB doesn't directly correspond to how humans perceive color. Created by the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) in 1931, the CIE 1931 XYZ (or XYZ for short) color spaces are the first defined quantitative links between distributions of wavelengths in the electromagnetic visible spectrum and perceived colors in human vision.

> People with normal vision have three kinds of cone cells that sense light, having peaks of spectral sensitivity in differing wavelengths. The CIE X, Y, and Z parameters correspond to levels of stimuli of the three kinds of cone cells which, in principle, describe every visible color. The `Y` channel represents the luminance of a color. The `Z` channel reflect the amount of blue in the color, but is not the same as the `B` in RGB. The `X` axis is orthogonal to the Y- and Z- axis the XYZ color 3-D coordinate system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
People with normal vision have three kinds of cone cells that sense light, having peaks of spectral sensitivity in differing wavelengths. The CIE X, Y, and Z parameters correspond to levels of stimuli of the three kinds of cone cells which, in principle, describe every visible color. The `Y` channel represents the luminance of a color. The `Z` channel reflects the amount of blue in the color but is not the same as the `B` in RGB. The `X` axis is orthogonal to the Y- and Z- axis of the XYZ color 3D coordinate system.
```

Reviewer: But even then, this doesn't really make sense. When you say "The `X` axis is orthogonal to the Y- and Z- axis the XYZ color 3-D coordinate system", what do you mean? We are currently describing XYZ, so how can X be orthogonal to Y and Z in the same system?

Author: it's a 3d space, so think "cube". y and z make a flat plane, and x is at a right angle to that.
